data sink：计算技术语，任何能接受data的媒介。

In computing, a sink, event sink or data sink is a class or function designed to receive incoming events from another object or function. This is commonly implemented in C++ as callbacks. Other Object-oriented languages, such as Java and C#, have built-in support for sinks by allowing events to be fired to delegate functions.

Due to lack of formal definition, a sink is often misconstrued with a gateway which is a similar construct but the latter is usually either an end-point or allows bi-direction communication between dissimilar systems, as opposed to just an event input point[citation needed]. This is often seen in C++ and hardware-related programming[citation needed], thus the choice of nomenclature by a developer usually depends on whether the agent acting on a sink is a producer or consumer of the sink content.

The word sink has been used for both input and output in the industry. Mobile sink is proposed to save sensor energy for multihop communication in transferring data to a base station (sink) in wireless sensor networks.

provisioning：对应用的设置、预置，Provisioning is a term most often used in the telecommunication field. In this capacity, it refers to the configuration of both hardware and software in order to activate telecommunication service for a customer. Provisioning is not equipment. Rather, it consists of commands and controls for specific telecommunication devices.
　　The configuration process of provisioning allows the user to access data and technology remotely. The user also has the ability to look up secured data and to grant authorization to a wide range of network applications and databases by utilizing a unique identity process. Provisioning is generally managed and incorporated into departments such as information Technology (IT) and human resources. It gives network administrators the ability to assign technology privileges to employees and contractors of companies, as well to business partners. The software can also be used by a company’s IT department in order to enforce maximum security of system resources.
　　Provisioning also assists in monitoring the protection process of access privileges. This security feature is widely used along with hardware resources in products such as computers, pagers, and mobile phones in order to increase security and privacy. With its unique boot image control, provisioning reduces the number of configurations utilized during the transfer of information and, as a result, decreases the amount of abuse to the system.

Onboarding: also known as organizational socialization, refers to the mechanism through which new employees acquire the necessary knowledge, skills, and behaviors to become effective organizational members and insiders.

write from scratch：从头开始编写

overlay network：覆盖网络，在网络上组成的网络，例如端到端网络或者cs结构网络。

multicast：组播，多点传送。1-n或者n-n的信息同时发送（例如视频网络会议等）。

ip网段：
    A类地址：10.0.0.0--10.255.255.255
    B类地址：172.16.0.0--172.31.255.255 
    C类地址：192.168.0.0--192.168.255.255

round-trip time (RTT): the time cost between the start of sending a message and the start of receiving the response.

Least Recently Used (LRU): cache replacement policy

type-safe: languages which protect the type of data is correct.

retrival: 检索

compare-and-swap (compare-and-set): In computer science, compare-and-swap (CAS) is an atomic instruction used in multithreading to achieve synchronization. 在更新前先做旧值比较，只有旧值没有变化（没有被其它线程修改时），才更新新值。

hash: 散列

a divided by b: 分数表示，名词。x is greater than a divided by b: x>a/b

on-the-fly: 热，在执行过程中做配置或者改变 (随手)。包含两重意思：即时，临时。

externalized configuration：外接配置（不在源码内），通常指配置文件

programming paradigm：编程模式

cross-cutting concern: 

cohesive: 内聚
decoupled: 解耦

元编程（Metaprogramming）是指某类计算机程序的编写，这类计算机程序编写或者操纵其他程序（或者自身）作为它们的数据，或者在运行时完成部分本应在编译时完成的工作。很多情况下与手工编写全部代码相比工作效率更高。编写元程序的语言称之为元语言，被操作的语言称之为目标语言。一门语言同时也是自身的元语言的能力称之为反射。

magic number: 魔数。很多类型的文件，其起始的几个字节的内容是固定的（或是有意填充，或是本就如此）。根据这几个字节的内容就可以确定文件类型，因此这几个字节的内容被称为魔数 (magic number)。此外在一些程序代码中，程序员常常将在代码中出现但没有解释的数字常量或字符串称为魔数 (magic number)或魔字符串。

AST: abstract syntax tree: 抽象语法树

p2p peer-to-peer 对等运算，点既为服务端，又为客户端


an ensemble of: 一整套

反向代理：代理接受外部请求，访问内部网络。普通代理接受内部请求，访问外部网络

SPI service provider interface

VPS:虚拟服务器
虚拟主机：文件夹主站。控制权不在自己手上


I/O多路复用 I/O Multiplexing

c10k problem: 单线程处理并发10000连接

ipc inter-process communication

rpc remote-procedure communication

allocate 分配

apiworkbench raml

tty:终端
pty:虚拟终端，远程使用

duck typing: 类型检查在运行时进行，而且只要对象拥有符合的方法或者属性，就被视作合法类型。


skeleton programmming

template method pattern

css speech bubbles

tail call optimization

multi-paradigm 多范式语言